README.md, before:

# rollup-plugin-napi-image

Rollup plugin for optimizing images powered by [@napi-rs/image](https://github.com/Brooooooklyn/Image), without involving `node-gyp`.

see [example](./playground/)

## Usage

### 1. install

```shell
npm install rollup-plugin-napi-image --save-dev
# or you use pnpm
pnpm add  rollup-plugin-napi-image -D
```

### 2. add plugin to your config file

- if you are using `rollup`, import this plugin and add to `plugins` field like following:

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from 'rollup'
import { napiImage } from 'rollup-plugin-napi-image'
// ... other lines

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    /* other plugins */
    napiImage({
      type: 'lossy',
      quality: 75,
    }),
  ],
})
```

- if you are using `vite` , just replace the first line of above with `import { defineConfig } from 'vite'`

### 3. options

| name      | type                                          | default | description                                                                                                                                                   |
| :-------- | :-------------------------------------------- | :------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `include` | `RegExp \| string \| Array<string \| RegExp>` | null    | A picomatch pattern, or array of patterns, which specifies the files in the build the plugin should operate on. By default all supported images are targeted. |
| `exclude` | `RegExp \| string \| Array<string \| RegExp>` | null    | A picomatch pattern, or array of patterns, which specifies the files in the build the plugin should ignore. By default no images are ignored.                 |
| `type`    | `'lossy' \| 'lossless'`                       |         | The optimization type applied to images, when `type` is `lossy` , you can specify `quality` for the process.                                                  |
| `quality` | `number`                                      | 75      | Only works when `type` is `lossy`.                                                                                                                            |
| `toModernExt` | `(ext: SupportedExt) => ModernExt` | `ext => ext` | A conversion function that converts the specified image format to a modern image format. |

### 4. supported formats

1. `jpg/jpeg`
2. `png`
3. `webp`
4. `avif`

## License

MIT &copy; [nemurubaka](https://github.com/cijiugechu)

Commit message:

fix: rename `type` to `mode`

README.md, after:

# rollup-plugin-napi-image

Rollup plugin for optimizing images powered by [@napi-rs/image](https://github.com/Brooooooklyn/Image), without involving `node-gyp`.

see [example](./playground/)

## Usage

### 1. install

```shell
npm install rollup-plugin-napi-image --save-dev
# or you use pnpm
pnpm add  rollup-plugin-napi-image -D
```

### 2. add plugin to your config file

- if you are using `rollup`, import this plugin and add to `plugins` field like following:

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from 'rollup'
import { napiImage } from 'rollup-plugin-napi-image'
// ... other lines

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    /* other plugins */
    napiImage({
      mode: 'lossy',
      quality: 75,
    }),
  ],
})
```

- if you are using `vite` , just replace the first line of above with `import { defineConfig } from 'vite'`

### 3. options

| name      | type                                          | default | description                                                                                                                                                   |
| :-------- | :-------------------------------------------- | :------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `include` | `RegExp \| string \| Array<string \| RegExp>` | null    | A picomatch pattern, or array of patterns, which specifies the files in the build the plugin should operate on. By default all supported images are targeted. |
| `exclude` | `RegExp \| string \| Array<string \| RegExp>` | null    | A picomatch pattern, or array of patterns, which specifies the files in the build the plugin should ignore. By default no images are ignored.                 |
| `mode`    | `'lossy' \| 'lossless'`                       |         | The optimization mode applied to images, when `mode` is `lossy` , you can specify `quality` for the process.                                                  |
| `quality` | `number`                                      | 75      | Only works when `mode` is `lossy`.                                                                                                                            |
| `toModernExt` | `(ext: SupportedExt) => ModernExt` | `ext => ext` | A conversion function that converts the specified image format to a modern image format. |

### 4. supported formats

1. `jpg/jpeg`
2. `png`
3. `webp`
4. `avif`

## License

MIT &copy; [nemurubaka](https://github.com/cijiugechu)
